
===== PAGE 1 =====

Instructions for UT-KTH Mechanical Engineering Seminar II Fall 2025 
Introduction 
This seminar (or more properly project) is a task that requires searching for information 
beyond the course material, design of a study and perhaps a lot of engineering 
approximations. The work is performed in a group and at the end of the project you will 
hand in a jointly prepared account for each student’s individual contribution to the work.
What do I need to do to pass? 
In order to pass, the group must perform the project and report it with a poster. It is also 
required that the group prepares and present as speciﬁed below for each seminar. You 
must be present at the seminars (Nov 10, Nov 17, Nov 26, Dec 8) and at the poster 
presentation (Dec 17). Your contribution to the work, as presented in the joint account, 
must not be insigniﬁcant.
What will we do in more detail? 
Together with a group consisting of students from UT and KTH you will:
1.Get acquainted with a ﬂow problem from an earlier exam at UT or KTH and get an 
general understanding on what to do during the project. This is done before and 
during Seminar 1 (Nov 10). 
2.Solve as much as possible of the examproblem and prepare a 8 minute (not more!) 
presentation describing the problem and its solution. The presentation is made at 
Seminar 2 (Nov 17). 
3.Identify a phenomenon or construction/design where the ﬂow case in the problem 
occurs. An image illustrating your chosen phenomenon or construction should be 
included in the presentation at seminar 2 (Nov 17). 
4.Formulate a mathematical/physical model of the phenomenon or construction, where 
the dynamics of the ﬂuid dynamical problem is included. Time dependent situations 
are encouraged (e.g. a heartbeat, emptying or ﬁlling, starting, pumping, etc)! 
5.Solve the model analytically or numerically (or with a combination of methods). Points 
4 and 5 are reported in a suitable manner during 8 minutes at Seminar 3 (Nov 26). 
6.Make (at least) one parameter study and make conclusions regarding how the 
dynamics of the problem afect the phenomenon/construction. The accuracy of 
numerical solutions shall be investigated by varying the resolution. 
7.Produce a poster reporting the project. The posters are discussed in digital form at 
Seminar 4 (Dec 8). 
8.Present your poster at the poster presentation Dec 17. 
 

===== PAGE 2 =====

Detailed instructions for seminar 1 & 2  
Seminar 1 
At this seminar, you will discuss the exam problem and the project together with other 
students working with the same problem. You shall have looked at the problem before the 
seminar. After the seminar everyone shall understand the problem and have an idea on 
how it can be solved. 
You shall also get to know the other group members, have decided on how to 
communicate, when to meet and how to structure your work.
Seminar 2 
At this seminar, your group shall present the solution of your problem. You will present the 
solution for course colleagues who has worked on other problems. You shall also present 
the phenomenon/construction you have chosen to study.
The solution is to be presented in a suitable manner during 8 minutes. Note that this is a 
fairly short time, why the presentation must be well prepared! The presentation shall ﬁnish 
with an image showing the phenomenon/construction you have chosen to model and 
study in the rest of the project.  


===== PAGE 3 =====

Please chose either problem 1 or 2
Exam problem 1: 
 As shown in the figure, water flows out from a hole at the bottom of a cylindrical container. Let 
the area of the hole A, the depth of water H, the cross-sectional area of the container S, and 
gravitational acceleration g. Answer the following questions. 
(1)Water is continuously added to the container so that the depth of water is kept constant at H. 
Find the volume flow rate Q of the water flowing out from the hole. 
(2)Then, let us consider the case without adding water to the container. Assume that A i s  
sufficiently small compared to S and find the time required to empty the container. 
  
Exam problem 2: 
 As shown in the figure, two different kinds of liquid of density  and  flow into the mixer 
from inlet 1 and 2 respectively, and are mixed to create liquid of uniform density  flowing out 
from outlet 3. , ,  and , ,  are the cross-sectional area and the gauge pressure at 
inlet 1, inlet 2, and outlet 3. Let ,  be the volume flow rate at inlet 1 and inlet 2. Using the 
momentum conservation law, find the force,  and , exerted to the mixer for both the x and y 
directions. 
 
ρ1 ρ2
ρ3
A1A2A3 p1p2p3
Q1Q2
Fx Fy

